The initskel script is the equivalent of a small cpurc file for the
rootless environment.  By default it binds additional devices, starts
mtgen, issues ipconfig if hasn't been done earlier, and begins a cpu
listener on a non-standard port and puts a persistent rc in a hubfs.
The persistent rc can be used to 'tunnel down' to the rootless
environment from a different namespace.

One nonstand option available during the initskel is the choice to run
a 'private' factotum in the service namespace.  This has several
benefits, the most important being avoiding getting 'locked out' if
the root fs of the enviornment 'above' goes away.  Factotum normally
tries to mount the connection server /srv/cs and this service will
usually not be hosted within the rootless environment.  As a result
factotum will time out and not respond to authentication calls if this
cs goes dead.  The new -x option forces factotum to not ever mount a
/srv/cs and rely on the authentication server supplied to it with the
-a command line parameter.

Most of the variables are configured to have a default behavior which
is deactivated by setting =no in plan9.ini or answering no during
interactive startup.  Some of the defaults are passive, some are
active - in other words, =no turns on some behaviors as described as
follows:

binddevs=no prevents the binding of the standard kernel devices ( f t
m v L P u U '$' Σ κ ) hostfactotum=no runs a private factotum -x with
a specific auth server holding the key of your choice

netsvc=no turns off ipconfig although it may have been activated
earlier by plan9rc

hostcsdns=no activates cs and dns in addition to ipconfig

cpusvc=no turns off the cpu listener

hubsvc=no turns off the hubfs and 17099 hub exportfs listener

cpuport= sets the listening port.  the default is 17020 so it is
necessary to use a full dialstring to connect ( cpu -h
tcp!address!17020)

unprivileged=no starts an auth server if you have provided a keyfs
file in 9fat and compiled in the auth and keyfs programs.
